An ingrown hair occurs
when a hair that has been plucked,
waxed or shaved grows back
into the skin sideways
or curls down back into the skin.
As the hair curls underneath the surface
of the skin irritation and an infection may occur.
The skin becomes red and inflamed
and pus can build up in the affected area.
Ingrown hairs usually aren’t serious.
They can appear anywhere on the body,
though they are most common in the beard,
legs and pubic region.
Teens and younger adults tend to experience
more frequent problems
as do populations with tightly curled hair.
Treatments and remedies for ingrown hairs include:
Applying a warm washcloth over the ingrown hair,
particularly before shaving.
Shaving in a different direction.
Avoiding waxing or shaving
until the infections clears up.
Application of a topical ointment.
Application of antibiotics.
Using a sterile needle to lift
and free any loops of hair
embedded under the skin.